In this course we'll build an application where users can create posts, can read the posts of other users,
edit their old ones and so on.
So let's start working on that
and we certainly don't want to handle all that logic in one component only because that would quickly
explode in size,
theoretically it would be possible though, that's important
to understand but I want to create more than one component and we can simply create a new component by going
to the app folder,
this is where you manage your angular app and the parts that make up that app and by adding a new subfolder
there, you typically put new components or blocks of components into sub-folders to keep your code organized.
Now in there, I'll create a new component for creating a new post because that sounds like a good start
if we want to work with posts
we need to be able to create them, otherwise reading them will be hard.
So I will create a new posts subfolder here which should hold all my post related components
and since each component typically is made up of more than one file, we got a template for the html code
and a css file for the styling as well as the typescript file for the logic,
I'll create yet another subfolder in there to organize the files of a single component in there.
Now this is up to you,
you could also use a flatter folder structure or you don't use that many folders, I'll go with the subfolder way
here.
So in here, I want to be able to create a new post and I'll name this post-create because I'll
create the post create component in there.
The file which I create in there is the post-create.component.ts file and now the file name
theoretically is up to you
but it's a convention in angular to include .component in component files or in general include a description
of what's in the file in the file name
with this dot notation as we do here, .ts is an extension because we use typescript and the part in
front of that,
there you typically use the kebab case, so dash separated words for describing which kind of component
this is.
Now I got that post create component in there but a component as I said typically is more than just
the logic, it at least needs a template.
Now theoretically you can also define that html template in this typescript file
but since we have a bit of a more complex template and in general, it's a good practice to create a separate
file. So that will be the post-create.component.html
file now, so that's the html file belonging to that component and with these two files, we can work
with that.
Now in the typescript file, we create a component by simply creating a new class,
a class is a typescript feature,
it's also available in the latest javascript versions, it essentially allows us to create a blueprint
for an object
though we will never create that component object on our own,
we just give it to angular and angular will instantiate it and create it and use it,
we just define how such a component would look like and that includes a name for it.
There the convention is to use basically your file name
but now in that notation here, post create component, so the individual words that's starting with capital
characters and component at the end and we actually as I said create a class here, so don't forget the
class keyword and now we get a new class which essentially is just a typescript class,
we turn it into a component angular understands by adding a so-called decorator to it.
Decorator is a typescript feature, you add an @
and then the name of the decorator and angular ships with a component decorator, to use it in that file,
you need to import that though,
so import a component from @angular/core.
Now this is one of the packages the angular framework is comprised of
and this package includes these core features like that component decorator which you attach to a class
to mark it as a component which angular then scans for certain features and uses as a component.
Now the component decorator takes some configuration in the form of a javascript object which we pass
to it, in that object we need to define things like the template.
So we define a template and if we just use template, you could pass a string in here to write some html
code here
but for a longer template, this is not really something you want to do,
define a template url instead
and then add a relative path to your template file,
so in my case it's post-create.component.html
So this is then the file angular will look for, the template and then parse.
So now this is pointing at that html file,
now with that we also need to add more,
we want to add a selector,
let's actually add that first. A selector which allows us to use that component,
so to use it by that selector which serve as our own html tag. The convention is to start with app-
to avoid clashes with normal html elements which name you might take otherwise accidentally and
then any name you want
but typically you also use the well file name or the component name for this, so app posts create,
don't forget the comma.
Now this defines a basic component, you need a template and you typically also need a selector
so that you able to include it.
You don't need to add anything in the typescript code
here, we want to add something in the template so that we can see it,
maybe a h2 tag, the posts create component and now what?
Now we could use it, we could go to the app component.html
file
because remember all components other than the app component are added to other angular components, not
the index.html file and in the app component html file,
we could add app post create like that.
This is now our own html tag, our own component being used.
You see my IDE already isn't liking this
and if we save that and we go back to the application, we see a blank screen.
If we now open the developer tools here in the browser, we see that we got an error message that app
post create is not a known element and the reason for that is that it isn't a known element, angular has
no way of knowing this because by default, angular and also not the build process, it doesn't scan all
files in our app folder and try to evaluate if it should be aware of that, if that is a component.
Instead we explicitly have to register a component if we want to use it and we do that in an angular
module, in
the only module we get thus far in the app module. There we added two declarations
and for that we first of all need to import it.
That's a typescript requirement,
if you use something in another file, you need to tell typescript where the code behind it can be found.
So we want to import something from posts/post-create/post-create.component and you omit
the extension, so you don't add .ts here.
Now the something we want to import is the post create component class, so a reference to that class to
be precise and
we store that in the declarations array here so that now angular is aware of this and that is all we
need to do.
Now if we save that, you see the post create component here and the errors in the IDE will also go away as
soon as you change something in the respective files and then save again.
So now we get our first component added,
that's nice,
it's not that useful though,
would be nice if we could use that component to really, well create new posts. So let's do that in the
next lecture.